# Wrangle-OpenStreetMap-Data
Project - 04 , Udacity Data Analyst Nanodegree
# OpenStreetMap Data Wrangling with MongoDB
## Data Wrangling Project

by, Rahul Patra.
7th June, 2017. (Revision 2)

----------

## Overview

This project seeks to apply data munging techniques to first analyse and clean Open Street Map data for a single city and then perform an exploratory anlaysis of the data after importing it into a MongoDB collection.

The data for this project was aquired from Map Zen. The compressed Oxford, England OSM XML data set can be downloaded by following this [link](https://s3.amazonaws.com/metro-extracts.mapzen.com/oxford_england.osm.bz2). The OSM file is 5.0 MB compressed and 66.2 MB uncompressed.

## Setup

This project has the following dependencies:

- Python 2.7
- IPython Notebook
- MongoDB

Assuming the data has been downloaded to the project root directory and been uncompressed, the IPython Notebook needs to be updated to set the OSM file name to `data_name` (for example: `data_name = "oxford_england"` for 'oxford\_england.osm').

Before running the Ipythin Notebook, make sure that The MongoDB daemon is running. This can be started by running `$ mongod` in your terminal.

## Sampling the OSM data

In order to improve performance, a sample of the OSM data can be generated by running `$ python sampler.py` in your terminal from the project root. It is worth noting that, by default, the sampler is set up to generate a 10% sample of the OSM data. OSM file name is hard coded within that script.
